The goal of GraphSLAM is to create a graph of all robot poses and features
encountered in the environment and find
the most likely robot's path and map of the environment.
This task can be broken up into two sections,
the front-end and the back-end.
The front-end of GraphSLAM looks at how to construct the graph
using the odometry and sensory measurements collected by the robot.
This includes interpreting sensory data, creating the graph,
and continuing to add nodes and edges to it as the robot traverses the environment.
Naturally, the front-end can differ greatly from
application to application depending on the desired goal,
including accuracy, the sensor used, and other factors.
For instance, the front-end of a mobile robot
applying SLAM in the office using a laser range finder
would differ greatly from the front-end for a vehicle
operating on a large outdoor environment and using a stereo camera.
The front-end of GraphSLAM also has
the challenge of solving the data association problem.
In simpler terms, this means accurately
identifying whether features in the environment have been previously seen.
We will touch upon this in more detail at a later time.
The back-end of GraphSLAM is where the magic happens.
The input to the back-end is the completed graph with all of the constraints.
And the output is the most probable configuration of robot poses and map features.
The back-end is an optimization process that takes all of
the constraints and find the system configuration that produces the smallest error.
The back-end is a lot more consistent across applications.
The front-end and the back-end can be completed in
succession or can be performed alliteratively,
with a back-end feeding an updated graph to the front-end for further processing